# Multiple-Sclerosis-Machine-Learning

Affecting more than 1 million people in the United States alone, and over 2.8 million others worldwide, Multiple Sclerosis (MS) is an auto-immune disorder that causes a patient's body to attack the myelin coating of nerves and the nerve fibers themselves, which disrupts nerve impulse transmissions sent down the spinal cord. This study seeks to examine the use of Machine Learning (ML) to determine the probability of the early onset of MS from genetic data of an individual. Unfortunately, there are currently no specific laboratory tests to accurately diagnose MS. A key method used today to diagnose MS is medical imaging such as magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of existing lesions caused by MS in the central nervous system. However, since this method depends on lesions already caused by MS, detection is usually late.  Alternatively, genetic detection of this disease can have significant impact on early detection of MS and the ability to avert its severe impacts. Recent studies have shown that peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) bear specific genetic variance that may be used to classify MS or non-MS subjects. The challenge is to detect a panel of discriminative genes associated with disease. In this study, we describe an unbiased Deep Learning Neural Network to build a classification model for gene selection using publicly available gene expression data profiles and provide an analysis of how ML can provide early detection of MS or other diseases via genetic profiles.
